---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro
---

# Thesis

> "A problem well put is half-solved."
> — John Dewey

The problem-solving aspect of software engineering has always been the most exciting part for me. How can a series of function calls be pieced together to solve a business problem? To me, the reward is in the challenge itself: bridging two different worlds, that of the formulaic software codes and the open-ended realm of commerce.

Having immersed myself in the NYC tech startup scene over the past four years, I saw how Jefferson's optimistic vision of technology empowering the yeoman farmers to earn a living matured into the digital age. I witnessed first-hand the means through which mission-driven founders masterfully applied new technologies to address gaps in finance and healthcare and broaden access to essential services.

Among the examples of startups disrupting markets in a positive way runs a single formula: technology works best when it serves as a mediator--- between roles, competing incentives and different headspaces.

Yet a persistent issue stands out in opposition to this vision. I call it the _semantic gap_: the loss of resolution in how "core functionalities" and "value proposition" are communicated all the way from customers to engineers.

It exists between [product and engineering teams](/portfolio-site/field-notes/why-tech-debt-is-language-failure), as web3 startups building on the promise for users to "take control of their funds" quietly adopt a trusted-custody model due to unforeseen engineering constraint.

It exists between [the market and the tech sector](/portfolio-site/field-notes/does-technology-create-freer) at large, as Uber drivers who sign up "to be their own boss" find their livelihood determined by a black-box algorithm.

I speculate that these two seemingly distinct alignment issues, the micro-level disconnect between the product that was promised versus the product that _gets built_, and the macro-level coordination failure between the market pain points that were communicated and the ones that _get solved_, [are in fact deeply intertwined](/portfolio-site/field-notes/alignment-gap).

The lack of visibility between market-facing and  results in reworks, pivots, and ultimately suboptimal commitments to product roadmaps. On a systemic level this constrains the range of problem being solved. It is for this reason for instance, that __% of B2B SaaS revenue comes from __% of companies, even though __% of revenue is generated by SMB companies.

This situation will only worsen over time as cutting-edge technology becomes increasingly arcane requires expertise in both the technical and market domains. Closing this semantic and contextual gap is therefore the first step towards revitalizing the promise of free markets to create free societies.

With my private consultation work, I help startups stay on track with their product vision and prevent costly rework by assisting in technical design discussions and managing parallel development tracks. With my writings, I explore the rich literature at the intersection of tech, economics and sociology, applying my own field notes as case studies.

These reflections culminate in my projects, [Bicameral](/portfolio-site/projects), a series of open-source and freemium solutions that leverage large-language models to foster context-sharing within tech teams as well as between businesses and engineers. It takes commitment from individuals for this systemic gap to be closed, yet 
